hi I'm Rob bursa this is my YouTube page
as you know here here and I am going to
show you how to utilize it to the best
of my ability if you look below you're
gonna see down there how to view my
lessons that's for the guitarist who's
learning the seven-week primer for the
basic guitar and if you start with that
it'll teach you quite a lot of stuff in
seven weeks if you've never touched a
guitar before you're gonna understand
more guitar than you can imagine in
seven weeks if you practice it takes
about a half an hour a day and that's
built on three different levels
beginning intermediate and advanced so
you can go ahead and look there just
remember beginnings for a the
intermediate lessons are B and the
advanced are C and we have some D's as
well so let me tell you about our
program here and why I do what I do
I walk into music stores and I hear
guitar players all the time that are you
know good players you'll hear a guy
sitting
you get the idea
you know you know great guns and I'll
say can you play mary had a little lamb
and invariably they'll just start
hunting around and they were just
playing all this great stuff and now
they're having trouble playing mary had
a little lamb and you then you say okay
after you know 5 10 20 seconds of
hunting around to get it they've got it
play another song play you know happy
birthday and sure enough they're hunting
around again and it would be so simple
if they would think about their scales
if they've got a scale and they can hear
that the notes in the scale are template
for a melody if I hear happy birthday I
have to ask myself most most notes or
most songs start on either the first the
third or the fifth note of the scale so
if I hear the first note of the scale
the third or the fifth I can hear each
one is a possible no beginning no fur
happy birthday and through the process
of elimination
I'll guess right one so if I hear it one
happy birthday doesn't sound right if I
try the three right or if I try the five
that sounds right so if I know my scale
and I know how to play melodies
so that's why you want to go we're in
those scales because they're gonna help
you to play music and rather than just
sitting and learning you know with the
tablature a couple different songs
they're only as good as your last song
you've learned you can't really play
guitar if it's grandma's birthday and
you want to start playing happy birthday
for but say somebody starts singing
happy birthday it's a little higher you
have to know the chord progression
instinctively in your head because
nobody's gonna write it out for you and
you're not going to have somebody come
up and tap it out for you so that you
can play it last minute you have to be
anywhere you hear now for me I might
choose different chords to play so or
maybe it's like a country so whatever
I'm gonna do I have to hear what I'm
playing first in my head and the only
way I'm going to be able to play what I
hear my head is I'm familiar with the
progressions of chords and I'll take on
beginning guitar students and they'll
say you know I want to learn how to how
to do what you're doing playing you know
extemporaneously or ad-libbing how can I
do that
and I give them the progressions of
chords and the scales and they get bored
and they don't want to do it and they
they are never going to be able to play
the guitar as a musician until they do
that and if you are taking lessons give
your teacher the link if he can't do
that
ask your teacher can you play you know
London Bridge or can you play you know
I've been working on the railroad or a
simple song ask him to play a simple
song and add the chords to it and if he
can't do it or she can't do it
then give them the link don't just say
well you're no good because most most
people can't do it it's about probably
about 95 percent of the teachers out
there can so give that test to your
teacher in the mean time
working on these exercises and call me
if you have any questions with anything